The pottery wheel is a great tool for making things out of clayBla bla 

Everything that is made on the potter's wheel starts out as a cylinder, so that is what will be tought first. When throwing there are six steps:
  Coning
  Centering
  Opening 
  Pulling 
  Forming

Here is what is going on with each step.

Prep

Starting off cut a piece of clay that feels comfortable in your hand. Try to keep it under two pounds, anything over two pound can become difficult to move around on the wheel when first starting off. 

Take the clay and wedge it. Wedging is the process of removing air pockets, and homoginizes the constsitacy of the clay, which can be done one of three ways. If you are using clay straight out of the box, or are at a studio that has a vaccuume pug mill, you do not need to wedge it.

Ramshead wedging: This is simular to needing bread, but rather then pushing the material out and folding it in on itself to create air bubbles, you are pushing down and slightly foward. This is streaching the surface of the clay, which will pop any air pockets near the surface. The clay is then rolled back on (.)(.) 

Spiral Wedging: This method works by moving the clay from the center to the end of the cone. This is done by pressing firmly with your left hand, and harder with your right, and allowing the clay to rotate, it will make a cone like shape. This method if best for larger peices of clay, and works best for removing air pockets from the center.

Hulk Smash: This is the easiest and most effective way of removing air pockets, and making the clay consistant. For this method cut the clay in half, and smash half of it onto the wedging table, take the second half and smash it onto the first half. Repeat this untill you don't see any airpockets when you cut it in half. 

Once wedged, pound the clay into a ball, and slam it onto the center of the wheel. 

Coning

Coning of the process of getting the clay particles moving in a simular direction. This makes the throwing process a lot easier in later steps. Get your hands wet, and spinning the wheel relativily fast, wrap your hands around the clay. Using the palms of your hand sqeeze in and move your hands upward creating a none shape. Once the cone shape is made press the clay down into a puck shape. This is easily done by pushing the top forward, and the middle inward. Think of crushing a can, if you have a dent in the side it's easier to collaps, same idea applies. repeat makeing the clay a cone/puck a couple time before moving on to centering. 

Centering:
